Now generally it's inefficient to run multiple operating systems on the same hardware.
In other words in this example I'm running Windows as what's called my host operating system and then
I'm running Linux as a guest operating system within virtualization software or a hypervisor which in
this case is VM way workstation
so the terminology once again the operating system installed on the hardware is called The Host operating
system
the hardware is called Bare metal hardware.
So in this example the virtualization software in other words VMware Workstation is not installed directly
on the bare metal hardware.
The virtualization software is running as an application within Windows.
Windows is installed directly on the hardware.
A more efficient way of doing this is to run the virtualization software directly on the bare metal
hardware.
So in this example I've connected to a VM where E6 I server this as a physical server that has the VM
where hypervisor software installed directly on it.
So the VM where yes sex Software is software that you install directly onto a bare metal server.
You don't run it to within another hypervisor.
Now you can like I've done here run E6 I within iOS 6 I but that's only for testing.
Typically what you do is you would run year six high directly on bare metal hardware and then you would
run multiple virtual machines on iOS 6 I that gives you more scale and better utilization of your hardware
rather than running a host operating system such as Windows on the hardware that's consuming resources
and then installing virtualization software and then running your virtual machines.
In this example the virtual machines are running directly on hypervisor software installed directly
on hardware so in this example I've got Cisco Call Manager software installed in a virtual machine on
iOS 6 I see what I can do as an example is open up a web browser to that virtual machine so back in
the console of the virtual machine I can use Cisco commands such as Show Network eith zero that shows
me the IP address of this virtual machine and I've not connected to that virtual machine from a web
browser within Windows and I can log in to the Cisco Call Manager which is running in a virtual machine
on iOS 6 I so this server that I've connected to has an IP address of 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2 4 2 back to the
Cisco call manager has a different IP address my local windows P.C. in this example has multiple IP
addresses configured but he's using a separate IP address to the virtual machine which is different
to the ESM outside server so when you connect to Web sites such as Facebook or Cisco there'll be many
servers running within data centers that are providing the hosting for these Web sites and the back
end software such as databases
those servers are typically not physical servers they are virtual servers running on hypervisor software
such as E6.
So you can have multiple virtual servers running on a single physical server.
In this example I've got one server but notice I've got many virtual machines that can run on that single
server.
And in addition I can run virtual routers and other virtual devices as virtual machines on the same
So this is a Cisco CSR Cisco services right at 1000 V which is a virtual router running as a virtual
machine on the hypervisor which in this case is E6 I.